README.md, before:

# chipbox

[GitHub](https://github.com/mariuszskon/chipbox/)

A work-in-progress [CHIP-8](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CHIP-8) interpreter/emulator, written in ANSI C and utilising the wonderful [SDL2](https://libsdl.org/) library for input, graphics and sound.

## Prebuilt binaries

[Prebuilt binaries for Windows are available here.](https://github.com/mariuszskon/chipbox/releases)

**NOTE:** This is a _command line application_ meaning double-clicking on the exe will not do what you want - you must run the application from the command line.

If you want a more up to date version, or for any other platform, you must compile it yourself (see below for details).

## Dependencies
For runtime, you need:

* [SDL2](https://libsdl.org/)

For building, you need:

* An ANSI C compiler capable of linking SDL2 (GCC 7 with make, and Visual Studio Community 2017 were tested)
* [CMake](https://cmake.org/)
* SDL2 development libraries

## Build instructions (release)
Firstly make sure you have all of the above dependencies installed! Then you can download this project, either via `git clone` or the Download ZIP option.

### Windows (Visual Studio)
1. Make sure you have CMake in your PATH. If you can run `cmake --help` from cmd without errors, you should be good. The CMake installer for Windows should offer to do this automatically.
2. Make sure you have downloaded and extracted the development libraries for SDL2 in a location you know, in this example, `X:\absolute\path\to\SDL2`
3. Open up a [Developer Command Prompt](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/build/building-on-the-command-line#developer-command-prompt-shortcuts) to ensure you have all of the right environmental variables set.
4. Run the following commands:

<!-- please ignore -->

    cd path\to\chipbox-master
    mkdir build && cd build
    set SDL2DIR=X:\absolute\path\to\SDL2
    cmake ..\src
    cmake --build . --config Release

5. Now you must make the SDL2.dll in the lib directory of the SDL2 development libraries accessible to the binaries. This can be done by copying it to the bin\Release directory of chipbox (where the .exe files are).

Assuming an x86 build

    copy %SDL2DIR%\lib\x86\SDL2.dll bin\Release\

Then you can run

    bin\Release\testcore

to run the tests, or

    bin\Release\chipbox_sdl "..\roms\Pong [Paul Vervalin, 1990].ch8"

to run the included Pong ROM.

### Linux

    cd path/to/chipbox-master
    sh build_linux.sh

Then you can run

    dist/bin/testcore

to run the tests, or

    dist/bin/chipbox_sdl "roms/Pong [Paul Vervalin, 1990].ch8"

to run the included Pong ROM.

## ROMs

For your convenience, a large pack of ROMs sourced from [mir3z/chip8-emu](https://github.com/mir3z/chip8-emu) (who in turn got it from the now defunct [chip8.com](http://chip8.com/)) has been included. The `roms.json` file provides metadata for the ROMs, such as their author, and possibly instructions for use.

You can grab just the ROMs (without chipbox) from [here](https://github.com/mariuszskon/chipbox/releases/tag/roms).

## References

Cowgod's nice, influential, but unfortunately inaccurate reference: http://devernay.free.fr/hacks/chip8/C8TECH10.HTM

Mattmik's nice, accurate but less popular reference: http://mattmik.com/files/chip8/mastering/chip8.html

Wikipedia's information which is less detailed but uses footnotes to highlight common differences in implementations: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CHIP-8#Opcode_table

Commit message:

Add quick start instructions to README

README.md, after:

# chipbox

[GitHub](https://github.com/mariuszskon/chipbox/)

A work-in-progress [CHIP-8](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CHIP-8) interpreter/emulator, written in ANSI C and utilising the wonderful [SDL2](https://libsdl.org/) library for input, graphics and sound.

## Prebuilt binaries

[Prebuilt binaries for Windows are available here.](https://github.com/mariuszskon/chipbox/releases)

**NOTE:** This is a _command line application_ meaning double-clicking on the exe will not do what you want - you must run the application from the command line.

If you want a more up to date version, or for any other platform, you must compile it yourself (see below for details).

## Quick start

chipbox can be simply called in the form `chipbox_sdl rompath` from the command line to use default settings.

The quick start instructions assume you have your command prompt/emulator/terminal open in a directory with a `bin` directory a `roms` directory. The `bin` directory has `chipbox_sdl` and the `roms` directory has `Pong [Paul Vervalin, 1990].ch8`. If you are using the prebuilt binaries and rom pack, make sure you adjust the paths based on where you extracted those.

On Windows:

    bin\chipbox_sdl "roms\Pong [Paul Vervalin, 1990].ch8"

On Linux/Unix-like systems:

    bin/chipbox_sdl "roms/Pong [Paul Vervalin, 1990].ch8"

## Dependencies
For runtime, you need:

* [SDL2](https://libsdl.org/)

For building, you need:

* An ANSI C compiler capable of linking SDL2 (GCC 7 with make, and Visual Studio Community 2017 were tested)
* [CMake](https://cmake.org/)
* SDL2 development libraries

## Build instructions (release)
Firstly make sure you have all of the above dependencies installed! Then you can download this project, either via `git clone` or the Download ZIP option.

### Windows (Visual Studio)
1. Make sure you have CMake in your PATH. If you can run `cmake --help` from cmd without errors, you should be good. The CMake installer for Windows should offer to do this automatically.
2. Make sure you have downloaded and extracted the development libraries for SDL2 in a location you know, in this example, `X:\absolute\path\to\SDL2`
3. Open up a [Developer Command Prompt](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/build/building-on-the-command-line#developer-command-prompt-shortcuts) to ensure you have all of the right environmental variables set.
4. Run the following commands:

<!-- please ignore -->

    cd path\to\chipbox-master
    mkdir build && cd build
    set SDL2DIR=X:\absolute\path\to\SDL2
    cmake ..\src
    cmake --build . --config Release

5. Now you must make the SDL2.dll in the lib directory of the SDL2 development libraries accessible to the binaries. This can be done by copying it to the bin\Release directory of chipbox (where the .exe files are).

Assuming an x86 build

    copy %SDL2DIR%\lib\x86\SDL2.dll bin\Release\

Then you can run

    bin\Release\testcore

to run the tests, or

    bin\Release\chipbox_sdl "..\roms\Pong [Paul Vervalin, 1990].ch8"

to run the included Pong ROM.

### Linux

    cd path/to/chipbox-master
    sh build_linux.sh

Then you can run

    dist/bin/testcore

to run the tests, or

    dist/bin/chipbox_sdl "roms/Pong [Paul Vervalin, 1990].ch8"

to run the included Pong ROM.

## ROMs

For your convenience, a large pack of ROMs sourced from [mir3z/chip8-emu](https://github.com/mir3z/chip8-emu) (who in turn got it from the now defunct [chip8.com](http://chip8.com/)) has been included. The `roms.json` file provides metadata for the ROMs, such as their author, and possibly instructions for use.

You can grab just the ROMs (without chipbox) from [here](https://github.com/mariuszskon/chipbox/releases/tag/roms).

## References

Cowgod's nice, influential, but unfortunately inaccurate reference: http://devernay.free.fr/hacks/chip8/C8TECH10.HTM

Mattmik's nice, accurate but less popular reference: http://mattmik.com/files/chip8/mastering/chip8.html

Wikipedia's information which is less detailed but uses footnotes to highlight common differences in implementations: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CHIP-8#Opcode_table
